Thank you. Thank you again, everyone. Thank you very much. You are welcome, everyone. Thank you
very much.
Again, we will strengthen our motivation. Again, we are activated. And then there are the teachings
.
And again, to do teaching, we remember we are not going to forget that what is most important
is beautiful motivation that is so important. So therefore, every time in the teaching,
mentioned to all the time, reminding them to each of us that about mind of the motivations.
And this motivation is again those three, three motivations, joy and appreciation,
and vastness, motivation of the bodhicata, and purity, motivation of these Vedayana teachings,
all the three Vedya states, Vedara form, Vedara song, and Vedara space and mind, those are so, so
important,
is crucial. That is the whole, actually practice, our practice, that is our study, that is our
meditation.
So therefore, again, we stand up there between motivation and intention, open, treasured goal of
our heart, those.
And with that, and then we go again with this Jabji Dhunu, teaching. And again, I am just going to
read the title here,
Heart Otherwise for the Fourteen Ones, by this Balanesh Dhunu, or Jabji Dhunu, this is one of the
very important,
simple instruction for all of us. Ask how we like to practice, how we like to practice,
how we like to get progress, not just practice, progress with practices, that this is the relief
instruction. There is also making, there is a full wealth of the practitioners, full wealth.
You reflect, I mean, all translation, it's the full wealth. Well, we have this full wealth,
our practice becomes very rich, rewarding, satisfactory, relief fulfillment.
Somehow, amazing is full of treasures, then we get all of the realizations, and bring ourselves,
not so much fulfillment. So therefore, I mean, this is really, I mean, it's simple, simple,
very straightforward, direct teaching, direct on our teaching. So really, of course, I will go over
this again, and then later on that, but those are really what the teaching says. So therefore,
always having those beautiful thoughts, then we go to the teaching. Again, with three frames,
as great master, Omniscient Nungi Bach, highlighted, beginning good, middle good,
concluding good, and I translated those sometimes good, sometimes noble, but reality it is,
in a debate, it is tambasan, tambasan, tambam means noble, tambam means vicious,
tambam means goodness, it's something supreme. So it's three, three novels, three springs,
three good, excellence, three excellence. We put this frame, our practice in meditation,
and all become like that. So therefore, again, with that, first, the beginning, noble, is again
intention. And thank you with the four renouncer, I can talk, as well as close connection to the
Buddha Dharma Sangha or the reference, and both each other, and then devotions. Those are
beginning good, beginning noble, beginning excellent. This is not just a beginning, then you forget
,
this is continuing that, that energy is continuing to the middle, to the concluding, and the third
stage. With that energy, with that view, with that thought or understanding, then we apply in the
middle, the meditation, the concentrates, whether we chanting practices, meditation, or we silence
meditation, all meditation. According to Vaidhyana, Vaidhyana has generated all practices are
summarized
in the two. The visualization stage, or creative stage of visualization practices,
complicated stage practice of the disarming stages, that both are the powerful meditation,
what powerful and very profound, really powerful meditation. So therefore, this meditation,
with those beautiful intentions, that energy, that thought, the beginning good, we begin to
practice
with meditation, concentrates, and that we again combine in six parama-das. Six parama-das,
six parama-das encompass entirely Buddha teaching, Buddha practices,
Buddha's teaching practices, as I said so many times, and you all know that too, too, encompasses
everything. In this case today we highlight of the the putt parama-das, dhyana parama-das,
which is again meditation. It is again practices. What is the essence of the dhyana,
connotation of the meditation in the teaching state, not destructive, not destructive.
That is simple. One word tells the identity and the nature of the concentrations.
That means not destructive from where you're focusing, but even you're focusing.
Whether you focus, I call it very energetic, the visualizations, or whether you're focusing
your mind with the complete stages, not destructive. That is what it is.
That also means that is samadhi meditation, not destructive. Vibhachana meditation, not destructive
.
Distraction is mandir. Distraction is duality.
Distraction is update, the busyness of the emotions, mandir conceptions. It carries out us
from the point, essential point. It completely knocking down us, therefore not distracting.
That is really the essential meaning of the concentrations, or essential nature of the
concentrations, or meditations. So now we've been discussing of the meditation, of this topic,
called three days. Already we have discussed it, and we came yesterday with the postures.
We discussed about the postures, importance of the postures. Those we discussed. It's not something
that you only heard yesterday. You all heard and learned so many times from the books, from the
great masks, one after another. Again, once again, we discussed those, those importance, the post
ures.
Once you have the good postures, then how to put that in actions now? We also discussed
breathing purifications. We talked spoke very simple ways. There is more kind of variety way to
breathing purification exercise. We talked spoke or I spoke very simple ones. And that
which is of course, I'm sure you already know those things. But it's cleansing and purifying.
Purify. What we purify, in temporary level, we purify all the emotions, the stress force,
anxieties, that's worryness. Those are we purify. And deep down what we purify
in the teaching set, all the obscurations, negativities, broken samayas, broken commitments,
that fired up that shadow, that stain, that's fired up that we're cleaning,
that need to go out. So that means all our system of the body, the channels, the chakras,
are all clairway, that, that stain, that shadow. Therefore, purification, breathing purification
exercise is very powerful, very important in the teaching making. It is healing, it is rejuvenating
,
it is relaxing, it is calming, and deep down it is cleansing. The very fundamental cause of those
all the emotions, obscurations, negative calmness, those really in the teaching set.
So those are we discussed yesterday. Then we discussed the other day about the six conditions,
supporters of meditations. Those are basically the support for not distracting. Basically,
the support for not distracting physically, mentally. Above that, we discussed it,
Kasadeh, or I mentioned, the particular spatial state of the mayana, bodhisattva practitioner,
and a retreat from the self-important attitudes. Self-important. Self-important is,
it's just we, all everyone has, as long as we have the ego clinging, as long as we have the notion
of the me and you, there is always that attitude comes. And the attitude of self-important is
force, that means, I'm not important. You are the second. Even though we don't pronounce that
openly,
but that is where line up like that. Find that. See, bodhisattva practitioners and bodhicitta
practitioners, then they reverse that. That is called only practices, ever use simple word
that we all know. So we discussed it there. As much as we can also really bring up that,
that meaning during our meditation, the practices, even in post-meditation status,
as much as we can. We're keeping up our practices. We're keeping up the very core of our practices.
So we discussed those. And then we discussed about errors and mistakes of during the meditation,
or before, for the meditation, which meant five of those points, points. And sure, you did this
state, and of course, you also know already those. Five of those we went. Five. Then I discussed,
also making the highlight of the five supporters of it, of the meditation. What do we do when we
have those obstacles? What kind of antidotes we use? I listed five of them. So now we are in a way,
I mean, as well as my concern about how we went, like talks or these talks or teachings, now we're
ready to put into the practices meditation, that this time we're going to talk meditation.
When it comes to meditation, there are two states generally, two meditations.
Those are known as the Samad meditation and Vibhachana meditation. In the teachings said,
the brain master Kamadhyala said, entirely there, all the meditations of the Buddha teaching can be
summarized onto these two, two, Samad meditation and Vibhachana meditation. That is really the
principle, the principle frame of the meditation, Samad meditation, Vibhachana meditation.
And which is first, first the shamatha, from shamatha meditation. And then Vibhachana,
next following that. So that is Vibhachana. That means, for example, Madhivaka meditation,
Mahamudra meditation and Zoki meditation also encompassed within these two,
Samad meditation and Vibhachana meditations. All that encompasses. But first we did talk
and the teaching and the meditation is shamatha. Why? Because immediately we cannot go to the
Vibhachanas, because of our strength of concentrations. Our mind is kind of so busy,
so kind of spoiled with the always running all the time. It has no regulations, no systems of the,
when it comes to the mind, everything of our mind systems, the movement has no systems, no
schedules,
no kind of any boundaries. It's all running. This is up talking about our mind. I'm talking about
your mind. I'm talking about my mind. That's how the mind is. But you look that, from day
we wake up in the morning, at night we go to bed or sleeping. Always is running. No regular
schedules,
no directions, just turbulence. In the night again we dream. We're running with dream unless we
went
deep sleeping. Sleeping otherwise is so active. So therefore, the shamatha is so important.
Shamatha, so our mind, what is in the teaching, is like drunk elephant. Or sometimes in the city
use the example as wild horse or drunk monkey. Our person's mind is no regulations. Generally,
mind, or sorry, monkeys are busy. But when it's a drunk monkey, you can imagine what monkey's
active weapon. Horse is considered before, before the technologies. It's going to pass me running.
But when it's a drunk horse, a wild, drunk horse. Again, you wonder how are they able to. This is
same as our mind. So therefore, shamatha is so, so, so important. It's crucial.
Shamatha is a Sanskrit word and, of course, we all know. Shamatha means calmly abiding.
Calmly abiding. Shamatha. Shamatha is a Shanti. Ota, sutta is abiding.
Scientists. That means now mind to begin to rest. Begin to rest. And so that is what really
them are, how the shamatha started. Now, for example, when you have good, when you are in
good postures, what we discussed, according to your cup of blood, the principal point of the
posture is comfortable, spacious, relaxed. That is important. With that, now you begin to do,
you're going to meditate. Whenever you like to follow the formal instructions, formal instructions,
once you did those breathing, I said, after that, then in the teaching said, do some prayers,
devotional prayers, and feel the preciousness, feel the heart and joy. Really those like some
simple
prayers, kind of deep call of your devotion, deep call of your heart, deep call of the willing,
of the progress, of the relaxation, of the calmness, and to the Buddha's bodhisattva,
and to those calling the lama pha, or short one, if you do, seven-line prayers,
seven-line prayer, and all those simple ones, really from the deep heart with the devotions.
This time is seven-line prayers. What do you call? It's seven-line prayers, call of your devotion,
call of your joy. You call of our trust, call of our openness, willingness. Join them.
And if you remember, some of us, when you do read that seven-line prayer, I said, yes,
it's the embodiment of all, but as every enlightenment, so many blessed lives to you
and to everyone, blessed to you completely. Finally, I'm going to be somewhat dissolved
into light and merge with your own nature of the mind or heart center. Now you begin to do the
meditation. Nowadays, when we do the Shama meditation, there are many, many instructions.
But I'm going to do something simple and just three of those. Three of those. All is basically
the goal is the same to bring calm of the mind to mind. That means to make stable of our mind,
stable, stable of our minds. So now postman, for example, now you're sitting on the posture,
you did all those beautiful prayers. And leading your master, all that hurt your own
nature of the mind. And now you're going to relax. When you relax in the teaching, there's
instructions,
there is true. Now focus. We have to focus. Shama means you have to focus. Focus, there is
focus to the outer limb, focusing inward, the first two. Out of the outer limb is
from you, from out of me or from out of you. And this is out of you, focus
out. And out of that has also true. Focusing the regular objects or focusing to the holy objects.
So true objects. Focusing outward as true. That's what I mean. There's numerous techniques,
there's documents, but I'm using those two. Focusing outward, that means outward or body in a way.
And the regular one is, write a distance of maybe one yoke distance, such as Y-O-L-K-R-E, yoke.
Yoke distance, you put some stones or small piece of marble, small piece of some kind of small,
but shiny, catchy, catchy, you put that right in front there. And now you're going to concentrate
to that. So that object, what you're putting is focal point. It's a focal point that you're going
to really hold. You're concentrating. Concentrate. So that means your mind is to the eye, and the
eyes
are to that object. Or you sometimes instead, our mind is with two eyes, and the two eyes are as a
triangle point, point into that object. Now you're holding, you're focusing. I've been holding me,
I've seen now, you're focusing it. Focusing. When you focus that, what is the teaching said?
Instead, try to not blink in your eye, and not move in your eye or our eye. Focus. Because what is
the teaching said? The essential of the mind is really wind. Wind. So that means the mind is very
much connected to the wind. Wind is very much connected to the channels on the nervous system.
Nervous systems are very much connected to the eye. So when the eye is more stable, that means
it was stabilizing the channels. That channel means stabilizing, it was stabilizing the wind.
When wind is stabilizing, it will happen to stabilizing the mind. Therefore, in the teaching
said, try to not move the eye or blink in. Just concentrate. Very softly, gently, then you don't
have to stir it up there, but very gently, peacefully looking to that eye. And now this eye,
when you do, what that focus is? In the teaching said, again, the focus of the object focus is like
pillar. It's like pillar. When you concentrate like that, concentrate continually without
distracting. That is mindfulness. So that mindfulness is rob, rob, I believe, r-o-b-e,
rob or string, string maybe. String of the, string, string of the mindfulness is tied up with the
pillar. Pillar. And what is holding? Wild horse. Wild horse is, has like string that hooked,
tied up with pillar. Who's checking that? Training that? Consciousness. Consciousness is trainer
checking how wild horse is behaving. So that means all that three are targeted very gently,
very peacefully. But focus, because we don't want to be distracted. So pillar of the focus,
to the pillar of the focus, the wild horse of mind is tied up the rob of the mindfulness.
And consciousness is checking up, occasionally, how it is, how it is. What is checking up? Checking
out of what I said the other day, all the day, among the five obstacles, sinking mind, wide mind,
checking up. It is like sinking mind to meet spooky and dull, sleepy spirits. Wake up. That is not
distractions. Every wild is running the full direction in the world of the five sensibility
obstacles. That is not concentration. It is a distraction. So to bring back, whichever is
bring back, continually again, do the same way. We don't complain to ourselves. We don't feel
bad about anything. We don't ask questions about this why, this and that. Simply being aware that
by consciousness, put back to the same way, that is known as the meditation or the concentrations.
Concentration or the damn meditation, generally dividing into three, right? We went early quite
enough to put quite a while ago, every paramata, we divided three, three, three. I mean, it is not
just we divided, that is the teaching. Teaching said each of those divided into three. And
concentration or the damn paramata is divided also as the three. And three stages of the med
itations.
Pause stages, second stages, third stages of the concentration or the damn, samtije parottosambam.
Three stages. Pause one is, I translated the other time, the beginner general meditations.
That's what I translated, really. Every you remember that, oh, I mean, you know that what I'm
talking about, we already know. But it is also known as intubate, how that said, chepa, nirkyuk,
samtije, means generally beginning of a big, big first stage of the beginning of the, the, the
interest meditations or the meditation that enters all the meditators, meditators. That is
beginning. Meditation, one which makes it more interesting or more willing to meditate for the
meditators or practitioners. That is the beginning. Why? That is first. Second is, second stage is,
meditation or second stage is understanding the meaning of the, meaning of the, of the phenomenon
or meaning, understand the meaning, clearly understand the meanings. That is the second
stage of the meditation. Third stage of the meditation is, third stage of the
meditation that even police, the tatha gatas or the buddhas are policed. Police, that is third
stage
meditations. So those are three stages. But now what we're talking is the beginning stages.
The meditators, first stage that interested the old meditator to meditate.
That I'm translating, cheaper, near you, yes, something. Why? People are interested. Because
those who are interested on the meditation or know that somewhere, look, they see the benefit of
the
meditation. They see. That's what everyone is talking now. I can't say everyone. So many people
are talking about the meditation. Even they don't have any kind of beliefs or anything. They're all
talking of the meditation because it has power. It has benefit. You feel immediately.
It brings calm, peaceful, kind of comfort. It brings comfort. The world of stress force,
world with the anxieties, really, it brings. Therefore, so many of those peoples are kind of
excited,
interested, talking about meditation. That's what it's called. Because why? They're attracted,
they're kind of, attracted or ever used, they're attracted, they're not, they're kind of
interested of the explore of the feeling of the calm and peaceful. So they are clinging in a way,
attracted to the, the feeling of comfort. Of course, that we all know is nothing wrong.
They see well and important. That is, is beginning serious.
If we continue meditation this way, constantly there, our mind will become more calm, more
peaceful, more stable, not running all the time, all the time. At the beginning of time when we
meditate, what is the teaching said? The fourth experience is that you can see the turbulence of
the mind, restless state of the mind, running everywhere, every direction. Even you can,
or we cannot hold one second, almost really, cannot. That's how our mind is doing all the time.
Why we notice it then now? Because we meditate. When we're not meditating, even then we will not
rely on that how our mind is acting. Because we carry it out all the time, external work,
out all the time. So therefore, now, that's what in the teaching said, or those great masters said,
don't worry that if the mind you see the book running like that, that means you are meditating.
That means you are really seeing things. Begin to see things how our inner world of the mind is
acting, the emptiness in mind is acting. You see, therefore feel happy, be strong in courage,
continually meditate. Meditate. At this time, then when you become all the most stable,
or they become, then three experiences will come. One after another, or maybe randomly, those are
known as the mindfulness experience, clarity experience, and no thought experience. Those
experiences will come gradually, or they may be regularly, randomly will come. But those are known
as the playable result of the meditation or the concentrators. This state is also still known as
this positive meditation. Even we have a lot of kind of comfortable blissfulness,
and kind of clarity, no thought, very comfortable thought. That is also still positive meditation,
because we are, our peoples are doing meditation more kind of with longing for the feeling,
longing for that comfort, longing for that quietness. They meditate. Meditated, that's
what is called positive. Which is good, that means progress. To develop your mind,
you become a little more calm and more peaceful. More peaceful. Then when we continually meditate,
again. Again is the same, so that means what? For example, when you have the time, meditate,
do all your childing practice with the concentration, with meditation, and then do the
silence meditation. We're trying to really change our mind for at least 10 minutes,
every session. Every session. So then that is really the practice, every session. So that means
every session you do, like every day, at least every day, once in one hour, two hours, whatever
your time. That was called continually keeping. I said the other day, once in a while meditation
practicing is not going to be a big happiness. And we will actually do the difference, we have to
be
keep continuous. Keep the rhythm. Keep the rhythm. Keep continuous. Read about what I discussed
the other day, five supporters. Bring more joy, more appreciation, more thankful yourself that
you're making some times. They've driven out into our mind, they bought our mind. They were never
taught before I heard the teaching of the greatest teacher of Bodhacharya Manoj. Really? Or maybe
some
other spiritual traditions. Otherwise, we never think about the mind, our self. And this time,
we're looking the very root of everything. We're discovering it is natural, it is beauty, it is
capabilities. Wonderful, really wonderful, beautiful. That is called beginning of the
taking advantage of the meaning of the British lives. That is what it is. And so, if you have time,
do maybe three times in a day, even your third time. If you have one hour to spend a time for the
silence, meditation, like concentration, do that again. But if the teaching is said, very many
times, master will say it. If you have one hour at a beginning time, if you have yourself alone,
maybe do maybe five, ten minutes, and then short breaks, do again. So, always keep the clarity of
the mind. We don't want to be dull, meditating, nor scared in mind. What is it called? It is more
important in the durations at the beginning time. Call it is more important. So, that's what we're
going to call it. Very call it. Call it good meditation. Work, short time, but many times.
Each time activating the joy and appreciations, bodhijattas, parinosa, and the ocean breeze. Just
even one of those short time, but that means even one minute. Reflect the mind, and again go back
to
that. And the teaching says, whatever you do, it will clarify the meditation. It will really make
our meditation more pristine, more criss-crossed. Criss-wise, it is praised. Move it, move it to
call
it the meditation. It's worth praying. Pray. So, do that. This, this. So, they have, this,
the first time meditation is there, as we say. You see, first it is you have comfort, calmness,
peaceful, then gradually they are developed. Drop the blissfulness, happiness, comfort, that
becomes
more kind of stronger. Then in the teaching, it says, clarity. Clarity, what that means? In the
teaching, it says, when clarity comes, even you can see kind of your wisdom is more kind of growing
,
looks more open, more growing. Even you see that you begin to know more than what you used to know.
And as well as also, even in the teaching, it says, you can see behind the walls, or kind of some
tree, your kind of different kind of vegans, and the kind of status that come in. But again, it is
display of the mind, where this is not our final goal or the big achievement. It's just,
if we start clinging and grasping to that, it is disastrous. It is obstacles,
handedness. Therefore, what in the teaching said, don't attach to the flavor of those experiences,
where there is a blissfulness, where there is a clarity, where there is no dual copes, no copes.
Keep continually applying the teaching that you received, or what you learned, or what we learned.
Keep continuing. Say God, "Mere Mornamos, you in appreciation, bodhicata, feeling the closeness,
connection to all the lineage masters, being grateful, grateful, really that humble and simple,
droned with art, yet courage and commitment and confidence and determinations are ready,
become stronger and stronger, deeper and deeper. And that's what we're going to discover our inner
goal, inner wall of the beauties. That's how we're really going to discover. That is the post-st
itch
of the meditations. In a debate, I mean, in the teaching, say, "Chipa, nirgurya," something.
So that is my talk for today, and I'm going to stop here. Thank you very much again for your
participation and coming, and really thank you so much everyone. And then I have some short
announcement this time, and which is that we told we're going to do teaching, teaching in the
practice, at this Zoom practice, the teaching, continually Friday, Saturday, Sunday, and we're
going to change slightly there, because all this change of what in the country is, and the world
happening now, is a little bit like, which is wonderful news, is like lifting up these lockdowns
everywhere, and if a world had more country, and they'd like to have more outdoor activities,
and all that reasons. And then plus, in this June, we have quite two celebrations, one after
another,
and now we soon, we will have also celebration of the "Kentipadishiram," which Mahaparinarvana,
and in Dakini ceremony, and as well as also solar eclipse. All those are really coming this time.
So we told we will not have all the Friday and Saturday and Sunday activities except for two,
among that three days, we will have two days. Friday and Saturday, we will continually keep the
teaching and the practice as we are doing, and then Sunday, we're off. Everyone is off.
And you know, you know, everyone is off, from the big one to the small ones. So we said off,
and we can eat yours. So that's what really I thought. I'm really told to announce that we'll
be more comfortable to everyone, so it's more scheduled and that. But police, of course,
we're all doing, and also I'd just like to remind you, we are all still, even though lifting up the
lockdown, all that, we have to keep it very thoughtful and careful. I think it's more practical.
If we do that, it's nothing really going to kind of damage our reputations, not our identities.
And so I think it's good. It's good for safety, everyone. It's good, and it's good for us,
good for others, and that is our goal. The graduate teacher, Brother Chagamuni said,
"For further true purposes, benefited others, benefited ones themselves." So in some daily,
we also really lined up what our graduate teachers taught, and so I just thought to tell that, okay
.
Thank you very much, everyone, for participating. Again, thank you. And now we begin to think, okay
,
now we do the practice of the healing practice, okay. Then we get here.